# Josh Ho - BI Project | Data Analytics and Visualization with Tableau

## Project Goals
***
1. Improve my ability to clean and identify relevant information for a dataset

2. Connect data to Tableau, working with Tableau's wide array of different tools and functionalities (plots, graphs, maps, calculated fields, parameters, clusters, statistics,dashboards, and objects)

3. Create effective and intuitive visualizations and dashboards to answer 
interesting questions pertaining to the chosen dataset

4. Present exciting and fascinating findings achieved through data visualization and analysis within a PowerPoint format

5. Ultimately apply the concepts and fundementals of data analytics and business intelligence

## Process
***
**Step 1.** Extract and transform FIFA18 dataset - cleaning data, renaming columns for ease of readibility, changing column data types, and dropping unused columns

**Step 2.** Connect and load cleaned dataset in Tableau, preparing for data visualization

**Step 3.** Get familiar with dataset, creating meaningful visualizations to understand relationships between measures and dimensions, and identify insightful trends and insights

**Step 4.** Develop questions to retrieve from dataset, then answer questions using data visualizations as justification and visual support

**Step 5.** Compile worksheets into different dashboards, separating dashboards by their content and general topic

**Step 6.** Develop PowerPoint to present findings in a concise and effective manner

**Step 7.** Push final results to GitHub for review and file saving

## Results
***
Option 2: FIFA18 Dataset

I created several visualizations, outlined within my Tableau workbook and PowerPoint. There were 3 main topics/questions that I wanted to uncover and answer. I asked myself - what were some interesting data points about 1. demographics of the players, 2. club statistics, and 3. player statistics? Together with Tableau, I was able to uncover key points like which team was the most valueable based on average player rating and value, which top 10 players had the best overall rating, which goalie was the best, who had the highest finishing attribute and many other cool insights. My visualizations ranged from scatter plots, for points with hundreds or thousands of data points, bubble charts to empahisize relative size, and bar charts for measure and dimension comparisons.

In order to work with the data and come up with meaningful visualizations, I selected the most relevant columns for my analysis. This included:
1. Club
2. Name
3. Nationality
4. Position (created through a regular expression function to extract the players most preferred position)
5. Age
6. Finishing
7. ST, CM, and CB
8. GK Diving, Handling, Kicking, and Reflexes
9. Interception
10. Vision
11. Overall
12. Wage
13. Value
14. Longitude/Latitude (auto-generated by Tableau)




## Challenges 
***
The largest challenge was choosing which visualizations to keep for my presentation, and which to simply leave out or remove from my Tableau workbook. To elaborate, there were many exciting and unique visualizations that I created based on several prompts and questions about the data that I came up with. However, with only a limited amount of time to present, and prioritizing my most pressing questions, I had to decide which visualizations to use and which not to use. 

This was the most difficult phase, as there were some very fun and interesting visualizations I created, for example which team was in the oldest in terms of average age, or which player was the best winger (RW), but I could not or did not need to use all of them, for efficiency and values sake. 

## Future Goals
***
If I had more time, I would try to increase the quality of visual aids in my PowerPoint presentation, adding even more different aspects of design to compliment my presentation. This could be using custom graphics, potential animations, unique icons, and relevant images to improve the flow and general aesthetic of my presentation. All to help connect it closer to the imagery and colour schemes often associated with football.

